# The Polygon Stack: Clarifying the Choice

When entering the Polygon ecosystem, the choice of which stack to build on can
be daunting. This document aims to clarify the different options available and
help you make an informed decision.

Polygon CDK is a developer toolkit for designing ZK-powered Layer 2s. If your
goal is to build a custom blockchain which inherits the security of the Ethereum
mainnet but also plays well with the [AggLayer](../agglayer/overview.md) to
leverage [unified liquidity](../agglayer/unified_liquidity.md) and the unlimited
composability this allows, then Polygon CDK is the way to go.

With Polygon CDK, you can build a custom blockchain with modules and core-level
modifications that allow you to tweak anything from account model to consensus
algorithm to state transition function.

If you are looking to build an application on top of Polygon, two main options
are available, both inheriting the security of the Ethereum mainnet:

- [Polygon zkEVM](../zkevm/overview.md)
- [Polygon PoS](../pos/overview.md)

Polygon PoS is a proof-of-stake blockchain and a good choice if you are looking
to build an application on top of Polygon that requires low transaction fees and
fast confirmation times. Its massive ecosystem also make it a good target for
DeFi applications, game projects, and other applications which could benefit
from hooking into a vibrant and popular environment.

Polygon zkEVM is a ZK-powered Layer 2 which can be a good choice if you are
looking to build an application on top of Polygon that requires high transaction
throughput and low transaction fees, while also leveraging ZK technology to
provide validation and fast finality of off-chain transactions. With ZK progress
ramping up and zkEVM connecting to AggLayer, zkEVM gives builders the same
connectivity to a built-out ecosystem as PoS, but with a brand new architectural
approach. The zkEVM ecosystem is expanding rapidly, but the fact that it's
relatively new leaves room for some more first-mover-advantages to be claimed.
One caveat is that due to the nature of ZK technology and its mathematical
specificity, EVM and zkEVM are not exactly at full feature parity, so some
caution is warranted. For a full list of differences, please see the
[zkEVM docs](../zkEVM/spec/evm-differences/).

Polygon Miden is a zero-knowledge rollup for private, high-throughput
applications. It is a modular execution layer that extends Ethereumâ€™s
capabilities using powerful features such as parallel transaction execution and
client-side proving.

Miden allows users to prove state changes locally while the network only tracks
a commitment, leading to privacy and high-throughput. Users can also let the
operator prove public state changes like other rollups.

With Miden, developers can create novel, high-throughput, privacy-preserving
dApps for DeFi, RWA, and on-chain games with languages such as Rust and
TypeScript.

Which one should you choose? Consult the table below.

![A table comparing the different Polygon solutions](../images/compare.png)
